# Inspiration
Truthfully, I am not the creative type of person. That is why when I heard Mr Lam announce the WA2 assignment, I was perplexed. It was one of the first times in my life that I had the liberty to choose the topic of any major assignment. I did not know what to do, I did not know what to choose. As the deadline for selecting the type of web app I was going to make drew nearer and nearer, I was getting more and more nervous. I was running out of time. I decided to ask my friends what they decided to do themselves. Some chose to make an exam planner while others chose study trackers. While all of these concepts sounded interesting, none of them truly resonated with me. I wanted to make something that would help me as well as my peers. I did not want to do this solely for the weighted assessment, I wanted to do this for myself. Days and days went on and things remained the same. While more and more people were picking their assignments, I was still there, contemplating what I should do. I was just doing what I do every day until I saw a message. It was from a group chat where I don't usually see many messages. It was a group chat for school, more specifically, for H2 Computing. There, I saw Mr Lam's message. It read: "If you do not choose a topic by this time, this assignment will be fixed for you". The assignment in question is A H2 Math portal. Eureka! This was it, a way to help others as well as myself. Immediately after reading that message, I set my mind on completing the H2 Math portal regardless of how challenging it may be. 

# What it does
There are many different functions built into my web app. Firstly, there is a register and login system. Where every successful login adds the user as well as their password into a database such that for every future successive login, their profiles would remain. Next, there are four different types of quizzes. A twenty-minute one, a thirty-minute one, a forty-minute one, and a fifty-minute one. The quizzes end automatically after their respective time frames are over. Each one of these contains ten math questions with dynamic questions and answers. After finishing a quiz, you may head over to the side tab on the main page to say three different buttons. A leaderboard button, a profile button, and a logout button. The profile button would be there to check your personal top scores for a specific type of test while the leaderboard button would show you the highest scores from every collective user. After you are done doing what you want to do on the website, you may leave by pressing the logout button. Now, that was only from the student's perspectives. From the perspective of an administrator,  you would have to log in with a specific account. After you log in, you will be brought to a different page. This page would allow you to delete user profiles as well as leaderboard scores if you feel as though they do not belong. After you delete the scores, other regular users would not be able to see the scores on the leaderboard anymore and if you deleted their profiles, it would be as though the profile never existed and no one even created that account in the first place.



# How it's built
Firstly, I set up the basic structure of Flask, HTML, and CSS. Following that, I started making the main page for my website. Immediately after, I created a register and login system while also connecting it to a database. Afterward, I created the logic for the different types of exams, the leaderboard, and the profile. Finally, I created the admin portal. This code was built mainly on Visual Studio code and for the parts that I did not know how to do, I relied on Google or chatGPT for assistance.


# Challenges encountered
While there were many challenges encountered along the way, the biggest challenge I faced was learning how to set up a database as well as how to retrieve information from the said database. As we were only recently taught databases by Mr Lam, I did not know how to do much other than query the database. And even then, I only knew how to do that on programs such as DB browser but not on Python. Thus, it took me a long time to connect my project with a database and even longer to learn how to properly utilize the database in Python. Thus, I had to do a lot of research on my own regarding this topic which took a lot of time and effort. Even after the database was functioning, it was extremely difficult for me to fetch and display the information on my website which made it so I had to spend a lot of time debugging. With databases, since there are so many factors in play, it was very difficult to pinpoint the mistakes making it so debugging took an extremely long time and made up for the bulk of the duration I took working on the project. Eventually, though, I was able to get it working after watching different YouTube videos as well as using Google and asking AI for help.



# Accomplishments which I'm proud of
This web app is the biggest web app I have ever made be it with or without assistance, with it comes many different new experiences and new things that I had to do to make the web app what it is today. Some examples to showcase this could be connecting the web app to a database, making a functioning register and login system, making the questions to answers to the math questions dynamic, imposing a time constraint, making a leaderboard, and making an admin portal. All of these tasks are monumental to me as they were things I had never done before and I believe that doing all these things actively helped improve my skills in computing. If I had to explain why I am proud of these accomplishments, it would be because I am naturally not very experimental so I often stick to the same things again and again. While that may hold certain benefits, it usually means that I never try anything new. That is why just doing a new task and going out of my comfort zone is enough for me to be proud of myself no matter how big or small these accomplishments are.


# What I learned
The process of creating this web application taught me a lot of things. These include executing some javascript, connecting to a database, and executing SQL code in Python. And those are just a handful. Developing this online application also improved my proficiency and comprehension of HTML, Javascript, and Python. 

# What's next for the H2 Math portal
Honestly, I believe that the H2 Math portal is almost completed. However, there are still a few minor features missing that I would like to add. First and foremost, I would like to implement a special keyboard that would allow users to simply press special characters like the fractions, square root, and pi buttons, rather than having to spell out all of the answers. In this sense, it would greatly improve the user interface and make things more convenient for people in general. Next, I want to loosen the format requirements for answering the questions so that it doesn't matter if you use decimals or fractions, and it also doesn't matter what order you write your answers.
